
#
 Volume 5 Import Wizard Table of Contents Data Grid Import ..................................................................... 1 Import Wizard ......................................................................... 6 Chapter 1 Data Grid Import 
##
 Data can be imported easily via any Rintagi screen if the data is contained in a data grid. This eliminates the need for re-entering a large volume of data from a spreadsheet or text file. By clicking the become visible. See below: icon at the top of each data grid, several more controls will When the Browse button is clicked, a screen popup requesting the selection of an Excel spreadsheet with an “.xls” extension will appear. The format and order of the data inside the selected spreadsheet can be viewed by clicking the established in the Data Tier setup described in Volume 2. icon. This data is obtained automatically from the logical schema When a spreadsheet is selected the available worksheets appear as a dropdown list. Select one of the worksheets and indicate the starting row excluding the header. (At least one row of header is required; therefore, the starting row must be greater than or equal to 2). Next press the button to import the data. A success message will appear and an example is shown below: If some contents require password override, just make sure it is a column displayed as dropdown-list, combo-box, radio-button or list-box and the reference table has a column named “OvrideId” as smallint nullable. This OvrideId column should obtain values from the table “Ovride” as below. Upon import, a password will be prompted when the first content requiring password is encountered. Nevertheless, if the user performing the import belongs to one of the user groups for the password override, no prompt will be displayed unless it is forced as “Prompt Always” as below: Prompt modal does not apply to import wizard to be described in the next chapter. For a dropdown-list, combo-box, radio-button or list-box, set an import property in “Screen Column Properties” as described in Volume 2. The choices are: The default “All above then Exact Name” is highlighted. This selection searches the two columns representing Dropdown lists and matches the key column first (if found), while ignoring the name provided. If a match is not found, a search to match the name exactly as provided in the import request is executed. If a name match is found, the key column will be filled automatically by Rintagi; if not found, an error will be reported and the entire row will not be imported. “All above then Starts With” will perform the above searches first then search the names on the list provided by Rintagi in the data grid for a match starts with the name provided in the import. If a name match is not found, an error will be reported and the entire row will not be imported. “All above then Wild Search” will perform all of the above searches including a “Key” search, “Exact Name” search and a “Starts With” search before determining if any of the names provided by Rintagi from the data grid contains the name provided in the import. If a name match is not found, an error will be reported and the entire row will not be imported. 
#
 Chapter 2 Import Wizard 
##
 Rintagi provides an Import Wizard to facilitate the importation of large volumes of data via a spreadsheet. Because there will be no data entry, a screen for a data grid import is unnecessary. First verify that the tables and columns are available in the Data Tier as described in previous volumes. Then use Wizard Column to describe the required import wizard. A mandatory field called “ImportFileName” must be present on the designated table for tracking the filenames in each row of data imported. This field should be nvarchar(30) and nullable. Rintagi will assume and automatically fill this column upon import. 
#
 Wizard Column 
##
 Command: Client Tier -> Wizard -> Wizard Column Schema Characteristic Description Wizard Type The type for this wizard. Available selection is Excel(.xls) for now. Master Table The wizard uses this master table to receive the import data. Wizard Title The unique title for this wizard (50 characters or less). Program Name The unique program name for this wizard (50 characters or less). Default Worksheet When importing a spreadsheet use this default worksheet name or order unless another is specified. Default Start Row The default start row of the worksheet (between 1 and 10,000). Default Overwrite Check this if the default for this import wizard is to overwrite. Overwrite Read- only Check this if the overwrite option for this import wizard is not user changeable. Column The column to be imported. Tab Index The order of the columns in integer form (usually numbered in intervals of 10). Rintagi will now generate the codes for the import wizard as defined: 
#
 Generate Wizard 
##
 Command: Generation -> Coding -> Wizard When the create button is clicked Rintagi will compile the programs: 
#
 Compile Programs 
##
 Command: Generation -> Coding -> Compile Re-login and the wizard should look similar to the following: Now a spreadsheet of data can be easily imported by using this import wizard. When importing from the client side use the “Browse” button, or when importing from the server side use the “List” button which accesses a directory specified on the server side. 